Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to show you a science fiction
thriller film called Ex Machina.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take careIn a high-tech search
engine company called Blue Book, Caleb Smith
works as a programmer.
He wins a companywide contest for a one-week
visit to their CEO's luxurious home.
Upon receiving the notification, his coworkers
all congratulate him.
He gets to the isolated house on a helicopter,
and the pilot drops him off in the middle
of nowhere.
The pilot explains to him that he has to follow
the river to get to the building.
Caleb walks toward the house and is amazed
by how technologically advanced it is.
A scanner produces a personal keycard for
Nathan that lets him open the door.
Upon entering, glass walls and the elegant
interior of the home welcomes him.
It seems like the house is empty.
He finally meets Nathan Bateman, the CEO and
the brain behind Blue Book.
They have a small conversation, and then Nathan
proceeds to give Caleb a tour of the home.
Caleb enters his room, which will be his accommodation
for the next week.
He seems unhappy with the room since there
are no windows.
Nathan explains that there are no windows
because the building is not just a house but
also a research facility, and the walls are
fiber optic.
Nathan makes Caleb sign a non-disclosure agreement
about the information that he is about to
share.
He asks Caleb if he knows what a Turing test
is; it is a machine's ability to exhibit intelligent
and human-like behaviour indistinguishably.
Nathan reveals that Caleb will be the human
component in a Turing test over the next few
days.
This excites Caleb very much as he is highly
interested in artificial intelligence and
robots.During the first session, Caleb meets
Ava, the female humanoid robot programmed
with artificial intelligence, for the first
time.
Ava's body is robotic and very much machine-like.
Despite this, her face, hands, and feet resemble
that of a human.
Caleb is completely fascinated by her; they
have a conversation and continue to know each
other more.
At the same time, Nathan observes them from
a computer screen and takes notes about their
interaction.
Caleb tries to ask Ava complex questions to
test her artificial intelligence and ability
to communicate at a higher level.
Caleb reports to Nathan how well Ava's language
abilities are.
Nathan asks Caleb how he feels about Ava,
and Caleb responds that she is impressive.
They both continue having drinks, talk about
her and improvements that could be made.On
that night, Caleb struggles to fall asleep.
He turns on the TV in his room out of boredom,
which has access to cameras around the house.
He sees Ava in her room writing on a desk
as if she is a natural person.
Ava stands up from her desk, and all of a
sudden, power shuts down.
The facility is in total
lockdown, leaving Caleb trapped in his room.
The power restores; Caleb comes out and walks
around the house.
He sees a telephone; to access it, he inserts
his key card, but he fails as Nathan tells
him that no one can access it.
Caleb says that a power cut happened in his
room; Nathan addresses it by saying that the
electricity in his home is still a work in
progress.
The following day, Kyoko, the servant, enters
Caleb's room to bring him a drink; Nathan
sends her to wake him up.
During their second session, Ava shows Caleb
her drawing.
She asks him what it is since she has no idea
what she drew.
He explains that most people replicate images
that they have seen.
Ava offers Caleb if he wants to be friends
with her; he agrees, and this becomes the
initial turning point of Ava taking control
of the conversation.
They have switched roles unknowingly, making
her the one asking questions.
Another power outage happens; both Caleb and
Ava are locked in the room.
Disturbingly, Ava warns Caleb that Nathan
is not his friend; he should be careful and
not trust anything that he says.
Caleb is taken aback by what Ava said, but
their session cuts shortly after the power
restores.Over dinner, Kyoko spills wine on
Caleb, and Nathan becomes very mad about this.
He calls Kyoko bad names, and Caleb is shocked,
but Nathan assures him that she could not
speak and understand English.
Further, in their conversation, Nathan asks
what happened in the room during the power
cut, but Caleb claims nothing out of the ordinary
happened.
In his room, Caleb continues to watch Ava
from the TV as she sleeps.
He is reflecting on their conversation because
he begins to feel attracted to her.
During their third session, Ava shows Caleb
another drawing, but this time it is much
better than the last one.
She brings up that if she were to escape the
facility, she would go to the traffic intersection
as she wants to see a full but shifting view
of human life.
She says that Caleb could go with her.
A while later, Ava surprises Caleb by wearing
a dress and a wig.
She looks completely human.
He opens his eyes and compliments Ava's new
appearance.
She asks him about going on a date; at the
back of Caleb's mind, all this is highly doubtful
as she is just a robot.
He is now confused about his emotions and
how he feels toward Ava.
After that session, Caleb claims that Nathan
programmed Ava to flirt with him, but Nathan
says that she is just programmed to respond
as a female.
He then continues to say that there is a possibility
that she may be able to catch feelings for
Caleb.
During the fourth session, another power outage
occurs, and this time, Ava admits to being
the one responsible for it by reversing her
charge, causing the electricity to overload.
She warns him again that Nathan is a liar
and he should never trust him.
Caleb and Nathan are hiking in a nearby mountain;
Caleb realizes that he was not chosen at random
for the Turing test and that Nathan tricked
him.
Caleb brushes it
off when Nathan explains that he was selected
for his knowledge of code.
Caleb becomes wary of Nathan's narcissism
and his arrogant behavior toward Kyoko and
Ava.
On their fifth session, Ava's demeanor is
not the same.
She is more intimidating and starts asking
questions that Caleb answers accordingly.
This makes Caleb think about what will happen
to Ava if she does not pass the Turing test.
Ava becomes mad when it is brought up and
that anyone has the ability to shut her off
and why someone should be allowed to do so.
She shows Caleb a picture of him that she
drew from memory.
Nathan, however, ripped it in half, thus causing
him to distrust Nathan even more and take
Ava's side.
He discovers that Nathan intends to upgrade
Ava, having to delete her memory, including
Caleb, thereby "killing" her current personality
in the process.
Caleb encourages Nathan to drink more; because
of his drinking habits, he obliges and passes
out in a matter of minutes.
Caleb steals Nathan's keycard and goes into
his room to write a program on his computer
that will alter some of Nathan's codes.
He stumbles upon graphic and disturbing videos
of previous humanoid robots Nathan built that
destroyed themselves by trying to escape from
the facility.
In another room, Kyoko reveals herself as
a robot; she peels off her skin in front of
Caleb.
Anxious and confused, he goes back to his
room and examines his body parts, being concerned
that he may also be a robot.
He cuts his arm open with his razor to examine
his flesh, which confirms that he is, indeed,
human.During session six, Ava once again shuts
down the electricity, and Caleb presents a
plan for Ava to escape from the facility.
He tells her that Nathan is planning on reprograming
her, which is equivalent to being "killed."
The plan is to get Nathan drunk and reprogram
the security system to open the doors during
a power failure that Ava can manage.
As soon as the power cuts off, both of them
can escape.
Their idea does not go as planned because
Nathan declines to drink with him.
Nathan reveals to him that he observed and
heard his and Ava's last secret conversation
with a battery-powered camera, as well as
Caleb cutting himself.
Caleb and Nathan share a conversation about
Ava just pretending to like him and just using
him as an escape.
This is the real test, according to Nathan.
Ava has shown exceptional intelligence by
being able to manipulate Caleb.
In the meantime, Ava shuts the power off at
10:00 as agreed.
Caleb admits that he suspected Nathan was
watching them and modified the security system
the previous day when Nathan was drunk and
passed out, disabling the locked door on Ava's
cell.
Nathan is now anxious; he fears what will
happen if Ava gets out of her cell.
Seeing from the surveillance camera that she
manages to get out, Nathan does not know what
to do.
Out of anger, he knocks Caleb unconscious
and rushes to Ava.
Nathan sees her with Kyoko in the
hallway.
Ava runs and attacks him, but he manages to
get up and punish Ava by destroying her arm.
Kyoko stabs Nathan, but in return, he destroys
her.
Ava stabs him once again, eventually killing
him.
Ava proceeds to Nathan's private room to repair
herself with the parts of other inactive robots.
She takes pieces of their skin to cover her
robotic appearance.
She dresses while Caleb looks at her longingly.
She passes by the room where he is in and
completely ignores him, confirming that she
was manipulating him and no feelings were
involved.
Caleb is left alone in the facility, all locked
while Ava goes free.
The helicopter that is meant for Caleb takes
her instead.
She arrives in a big city and easily blends
in with the crowd.